So after creating our first two visualizations, we now want to make our report page a little bit more
interactive and let's see what that is and how this works.
So we have those visualizations
and this looks nice but there should be more that we can do in Power BI desktop, right?
Let's try that out.
So if I select the right visualization like this and now press on to Asia for instance, like that, then
two interesting things are happening,
the first thing is that the Asia column in our visualization where we selected it is kind of highlighted and the maybe
more impressive thing is that the left visualization also changed.
We only can see data for Asia right now in that visualization, let's click on to Asia again,
now it is the same way it was before
and select Europe. It's the same behavior,
we can also see that we now highlighted Europe right here and we can also see the Europe development in
our left visualization now,
why is this happening?
Well if you remember back, the interface video, we had an option named interactions
and we can find that as soon as we select a visualization, go to the format ribbon
and now in that left part right here, what if I click that?
Did you see what changed?
Let me do it again
and now focus on the line chart,
so on the left chart and I select it again
and what you can see right here is that we have two new symbols, right?
This filter and this none symbol.
What does this mean?
Let's maybe select the none first, like this,
then we can see that we have our initial visualization back
but I still selected Europe right,
so let me unselect
Europe and select North America,
this doesn't work anymore.
If I change that back up here to the filter, then it gets filtered.
So this means we can interact between our visualizations and we can define how this interaction should
impact the other visualization,
so in that case either with a filter or not at all.
Let's keep that filter.
Now let me click
North America again, like this
and if I now select the left visualization, then you can see that we now have three options in our column chart
right here. We have that filter,
we have that none and we have that highlight. At the moment, highlight is selected,
what does that mean?
So if I press right here for instance, didn't work, now it works, then we can see that Asia is highlighted because
we selected Asia in that left visualization,
we can also do that with Africa of course, like this.
So what if we change that from highlight to filter?
Let's click right here,
then we only see Africa, so we only see the selected region.
We can try that again like this,
now we can see Europe. If we select none,
then it doesn't change at all,
so we can click whatever we want right here, didn't work, now it worked,
now it worked and now it worked.
So basically, this doesn't impact that visualization at all
but let's switch it back to highlight and click again, here.
So this is all interesting right,
let me just do this so that you can see more.
So this is interesting right,
we have interactions between different visualizations,
we can edit that interactions and the interactions are different depending on the visualization that
you selected,
so we only had the filter to the left and we have the filter and the highlight option to the right.
So this is it, what we can do with the interactions. As we are done right here,
we can now leave that interactions menu by simply clicking again onto the edit interactions button right
there, like this.
So as we now did that, we want to take a look at another feature, the so-called tooltips because if
I select the left visualization and look right here, then we have the axis,
we have the legend, the values but the tooltips, well we don't have any information in here at the moment.
Now what could that be?
Well to understand that, let me first move the mouse over that line right here for instance. As you can
see in this box, you can see all the information that we have in our visualization,
so the year, the region and the corresponding population, nothing more.
Now what if I go back to our fields column and use our population, so that female population as
percentage here in the total population measure that we created? Let me use that and drag it to the tooltips
like this.
Nothing changed, right?
The chart looks actually the same,
the only thing that changed is the chart title, right here
but the content, no change. Let me move the mouse again over one of the lines.
This looks different now right because now we can see that we have that percentage here of the female
population
also in our window right here,
so we have an additional information and that is not directly visible in the chart but that becomes visible
as soon as you move the mouse over a certain data point
and this is what a tooltip does.
It simply helps you to add some information that you don't want to display directly in the chart,
so right here
but if you move the mouse right here, you can add the information, like that.
So we now understood all of the fields that we have in that line charts, right here
but if I select the right visualization, we have the axis, the legend,
we don't need that right here so we don't need a field but we know what that is,
the tooltips, yes
we just learned that
but what about that color saturation right here?
Let's learn what that is in the next video.